Memory Mangement is perhaps the most sensitive subject when it comes to binaries, or computing in general.

First of all, Memory is divided into 4 sections:
TODO: add diagram

Code 
:   This section contains the program code. The code section is read-only and stores the program text. This section is also known as the text section.
Data 
:   This section contains the global and static variables. This section is also known as the initialized data section.
Heap
:    This section 
Stack
:

Now that we know the structure of memory and the different components' use, we will dig more into how memory is used when a program is executed.

This particular point may get a bit messy, so I will explain it using an example.
Let's consider the following program code:
```C
int foo(int a, int b){
    int c = a + b;
    return c;
}

int main(){
    int x = 10;
    int y = 20;
    int z = foo(x, y);
    return 0;
}
```
When this program is executed, the following happens:
TODO: schema and modify these instructions
1. The program is loaded into memory.
2. The program is executed. The main function is called.
3. The main function is loaded into memory.
4. The main function is executed. The variables x, y, z are created and initialized.
5. The foo function is called.  The variables a, b, c are created and initialized.
6. The foo function is loaded into memory.
7. The foo function is executed. The variable c is created and initialized. The variable c is returned.
8. The foo function is unloaded from memory.
9. The main function is unloaded from memory.
10. The program is unloaded from memory.

