# Introduction
Ret2libc is an enhanced buffer overflow attack that can be executed even if NX is enabled (but ASLR is disabled), which means even when the stack isn't executable.

# Technique
The Ret2libc exploits functions already present in the c library (libc).
Particularly, it calls the `system` function and feeds it the string `/bin/sh` as an input.
: `system` can execute any command passed to it and together with `/bin/sh` calls a shell.

# The ret instruction
This technique takes its name from the return instruction, so it is only fair we give some details about this one specific instruction.

Reminder:
These two registers are very important in the ret2libc technique (they will also be of use in the ROP technique as well).

RSP/ESP
: Stack Pointer register (Points to the top of the stack)

RIP/EIP
: Instruction Pointer register (Points to the next instruction to be executed)

When `ret` is executed, it pops the value pointed to by the stack pointer(ESP) and places that value into the instruction pointer (EIP), then executes a jump to the value in the EIP register. In a very normal setting, the value popped off from the stack is an address that will be pointed to by the instruction pointer, meaning it is the address of the next instruction to be executed.
: Using our very carefully crafted buffer, we can modify the value pointed to by the stack pointer (ESP), thus we can modify the value to be stored in EIP and later jumped to.

Here is an illustration to better visualize things:
TODO: Drawing

## The Payload used:
To execute a Ret2libc attack, we must supply a buffer that has the following structure:

TODO: buffer image: (padding until overflow)(system()@)(return @)("/bin/sh" @)

The idea is that by the end of the execution of the current function (the one that takes user input), we will need to have the address to the `system` function on the top of the stack, so that it will be popped and placed to EIP then we will jump to it.

Below it, we will need the return address, which is of little use to us, then we will also need to have a pointer to the string `/bin/sh` just below that so it can be used as the argument to the `system` function.

## Library navigation
To use the `system` function and the string `/bin/sh`, we need to have their addresses. These can be found using the following commands:

1. First, get the libraries used by the binary and their base addresses:
```bash
$ldd bin_file
	> Output:
	> <some libraries> <Their addresses>
	> libc.so.6 => /lib32/libc.so.6 (address of libc)
	> (*or /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6 for 64-bit*)
```
2. Then get the offset from the libc base address of `system()`:
```bash
$readelf -s /lib32/libc.so.6 | grep system
	> Output:
	> number: offset_from_libc_base_@  <other......
```
2. (bis) Another way to get the address of `system()` is to run the following in gdb:
```bash
gdb$ p system
	> Output:
	> $1 = {smtgs ....} @_of_system() <system>
```
3. Then get the offset from the libc base address of `/bin/sh`:
```bash
$strings -a -t x /lib32/libc.so.6 | grep /bin/sh
	> Output:
	> offset_from_libc_base_@ /bin/sh
```
3. (bis) Another way to get the address of `/bin/sh` is to run the following in gdb:
```bash
gdb$ __libc_start_main,+99999999,"/bin/sh"
	> Output:
	> @_of_/bin/sh_string
```
## In practice
We will first need to craft the padding until the overflow (see the buffer overflow article), find the addresses of `system()` and `/bin/sh`, then use that as a buffer to execute our ret2libc.

I will shortly be adding an example from `HackTheBox` that exploits this.